So first and
foremost is after we look at this,
I would say, What do we prefer, right?
So a lot of what I do, for example,
right now is messaging software, right?
Because I'm very similar,
I am constantly contacting people,
talking to people, helping people.
And so does messaging software
suit what we do, right?
Does the wiki, does the blog?
So my question to all of you
would be out of these four.
And I think what we should do first is
we should, actually here, let's do this,
we should focus on
a couple of things here.
Messaging software is not the same
as email blasts, blogs, and wikis,
they solve different problems.
I think we can all kind of agree on that.
So I think, for sure, we're gonna
have messaging software in our stack,
no matter what, right?
We're always gonna have a Slack or
something like that.
However, besides messaging software,
if I was to say, you know what,
let's try and actually make this easier,
let's get rid of the email blasts,
let's get rid of the blogs,
let's even get rid of the wikis, right?
Do you have a question?
>> No, I'm waving goodbye to them.
>> Okay, yeah, yeah, yes, goodbye,
yes, let's get rid of them.
Let's start from scratch.
Now, we know we want messaging software,
right, we know that.
So that is gonna be where our
real-time communication is,
where are we gonna put our
offline communication, right?
Because there's a valid argument
in saying that this kind of
makes all of this null and
void in some regards.
I would say the one that's probably
the most helpful right now is email
blasts, right?
Because that's like a red flag,
that's something that they at least know,
if I get this,
I gotta pay attention to it.
So email blasts may still be
a good thing to keep, right?
But this, blogs and wikis and
articles and posts and stuff like that,
yeah, those will be convoluted
very easily, right?
So if we go back to what do we prefer,
the question we have
to ask ourselves is how do we
want our developers to access
information besides within messaging,
right?
In this case, you could say, you know
what, we like the formatting of the wiki,
because it already has a lot
of our best practices and
things like that in it, so
maybe we move everything to the Wiki.
Another thing I would wave
the question here is,
why did we create the blog?
And you don't have to answer that.
But the main thing, again, is that I think
it's very common for us in engineering to
be like, okay, it's gotta go here and
here, [SOUND] you know what I mean?
But if we can take a look at how we're
doing things and kinda say, okay,
let's take a step back,
there's actually opportunity to
just remove things entirely, right?
So what I would say is,
is if we preferred anything,
we prefer messaging software for
real-time communication to solve.
And this is where we're gonna
kinda start saying, well,
what does messaging software do for
us, right, to solve,
let's say, new issues, right,
or untracked problems.
Whoa, something else just came up.
Wait a minute, untracked problems.
Okay, wait a minute.
So we're gonna use messaging software, but
we're not gonna track our problems, right?
Why I'm showing this is this is a problem.
[LAUGH] This is another problem of
basically saying, well, that's great that
we have messaging software, but we may
have another issue with inside of that,
which is we're losing what you said
before, those threads, that Papertrail.
So how can we solve that?
Well, we just say, when a new problem
is raised, we create a ticket for it and
include Slack threads, simple.
If we just create an issue,
create a simple Papertrail that can start,
right, messaging software becomes
way more valuable, right?
Because now, we can grab the problem
quickly, we can open up an incident for
it and we can keep moving, right?
And we can also say all critical
information must be in the issue or
ticket, not in Slack, right?
So this is culture,
That's culture right there.
You have to be able to make
sure that your developers or
anyone else is gonna
follow these standards.
[LAUGH] Because if they don't, then
nobody's gonna actually do this, right?
But now if we look at messaging software,
we can say, okay, we're gonna take care of
real-time communication, basically,
to solve issues and stuff like that.
But whenever we have something,
we're going to put it into a ticket,
make it trackable, things like that.
Hopefully that'll solve one
of the problems, right?
The second problem is when new
information is shared, right,
we need a article or document for that.
This is also culture.
What does that mean?
In this scenario, developers must prompt
each other to write documentation.
Don't let it stay in Slack,
[LAUGH] don't let it stay in Slack.
If somebody's bringing something up and
you're like, this is important, right,
then we should probably make sure
that it's in documentation somewhere.
So this is a standard
that we're gonna set.
If you don't do that, you're not doing
your job the way you need to be for
the company, right?
So again, if we look at
messaging software in this case,
right, we now have
defined it a lot better,
we now know that messaging software is
really focused on real-time, right?
It's focused on whenever a problem is
brought up, us catching that problem,
creating a trackable ticket for it, and
being able to move through that ticket.
And then whenever new information
is shared, we need an article or
a document for that, right?
So with that being said,
do we feel like we need
more than one solution here for
the next part?
If we look at it this simply and
we just say like, okay, well,
we know messaging software is gonna
take care of our real-time stuff and
trackability and stuff like that.
And we now know that developers must
prompt each other to write documentation,
does it make sense for us to still have
this separation between wikis and blogs?
Or does it make more sense
to just have one and say,
this is a centralized
documentation platform or
whatever you wanna call it, right?
The reason why I think this
is a good decision is for
a couple of reasons, simplicity.
It's really hard when something's coming
out to know what to refer to, right?
Check this, check that.
This removes checking anywhere else,
we all know it's in the centralized docs,
right?
Now, where is it?
That's a different problem,
we'll work on that in a second.
But it's simplicity here.
Now, does that mean that you still don't
necessarily need the blogs or whatever?
I mean maybe, right, but
you've got to validate that, right?
Communicating releases or new features,
I would argue that this could
just be a really good article,
that this could be in the wiki
as a release section upcoming.
And if anything,
maybe the email blast just point
directly to that wiki article, right?
Generally serving engineering teams, well,
this does that too,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean?
So unless we have a really valid reason as
to why we're separating these two, right,
I would almost propose that we just want
one centralized documentation platform,
simplicity around it.
So maybe what that simplicity means
is that we also have simplicity
around organization in the documentation,
right?
And that can be saying, each team gets
their own section or area, right,
that can be managed on its own, right?
And we actually do this where I work,
there's a DevOps section, and
that DevOps section is like,
I can do whatever I want in that section.
If I wanna put GIFs in there and
make people laugh, I can do that.
If I wanna actually put real documentation
in there, I can do that too.
But it's my job as a DevOps
engineer in my part of
the company to look at that and
manage that area, right?
And I think here's kind of the bigger one,
which is just remove the need
of managing more things.
If we just say we're gonna
use a messaging software and
then a centralized documentation platform,
there's a serious chance that we could
just get rid of the blog entirely,
you know what I mean?
That's less, oops,
that's less infrastructure for
us to manage on top of literally solving
people's other problems of time.
And I would bet that if you went
into a meeting and you said, yeah,
I wanna save you time,
they're gonna buy into it,
because you're showing them the value
they're gonna get out of it as well.